Add code (#1)
kuzzleio/kuzzle-plugin-s3: README.md

# kuzzle-plugin-s3-upload

This plugin exposes actions to upload files to Amazon S3 using [Presigned URLs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/PresignedUrlUploadObject.html).  

## Usage

Get a Presigned URL: 

```javascript
// Kuzzle request
{
  "controller": "kuzzle-plugin-s3-upload/file",
  "action": "getUploadUrl",
  "filename": "headcrab.png",
  "uploadDir": "xen"
}

// Kuzzle response
{
  "fileKey": "xen/<uuid>/headcrab.png",
  "uploadUrl": "https://s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/...",
  "fileUrl": "https://s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/..."
}
```

> Then make a PUT request to the `uploadUrl` with the file content in the body.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then send a PUT request to the `uploadUrl` URL with the body set to the file's content.
```

Also, what is the file content format? Should I send an ArrayBuffer?

Author: Whatever you want, text, bytes..

> Finaly you have to validate the uploaded file otherwise the plugin will automaticaly remove it after a configurable TTL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, validate the uploaded file. If not validated in a timely manner (the TTL is configurable), the uploaded file is automatically removed.
```

```javascript
// Kuzzle request
{
  "controller": "kuzzle-plugin-s3-upload/file",
  "action": "validateUpload",
  "fileKey": "xen/<uuid>/headcrab.png"
}
```

> ### Example with Kuzzle Javascript SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example using the Javascript SDK
```

```js
  // Get a Presigned URL
  const file = document.getElementById('uploadInput').files[0];
  const { result } = await kuzzle.query({
    controller: 'kuzzle-plugin-s3-upload/file',
    action: 'getUploadUrl',
    uploadDir: 'xen',
    filename: file.name
  });

  // Upload the file directly to S3
  const axiosOptions = {
    headers: {
      'Content-Type': file.type
    }
  };
  await axios.put(result.uploadUrl, file, axiosOptions);

  // Validate the uploaded file
  await kuzzle.query({
    controller: 'kuzzle-plugin-s3-upload/file',
    action: 'validateUpload',
    fileKey: result.fileKey
  });

>   // Save a document in Kuzzle

Reviewer: I don't get the purpose of that example's part. I think this should be removed.

  "fileUrl": "https://s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/...", 
  // TTL in ms for the URL validity and before the uploaded file deletion
  "ttl": 600000 
}
```

#### *file:validateUpload*

Validate and persist a previsously uploaded file.  
Without a call to the action, every file uploaded on a Presigned URL will be deleted after a TTL.

*Request format:*

```javascript
{
  // Kuzzle API params
  "controller": "kuzzle-plugin-s3-upload/file",
  "action": "validateUpload",

  // File key in S3 bucket
  "fileKey": "xen/<uuid>/headcrab.png" 
}
```

*Response result format:* 

```javascript
{
  // File key in S3 bucket
  "fileKey": "xen/<uuid>/headcrab.png", 
  // Public file URL after successful upload
  "fileUrl": "https://s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/..." 
}
```

#### *file:getUrl*

Returns the public file URL.

*Request format:*

```javascript
{
  // Kuzzle API params
  "controller": "kuzzle-plugin-s3-upload/file",
  "action": "getUrl",

  // File key in S3 bucket
  "fileKey": "xen/<uuid>/headcrab.png" 
}
```

*Response result format:* 

```javascript
{
  // Public file URL after successful upload
  "fileUrl": "https://s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/..." 
}
```

#### *file:deleteFile*

> Deletes an uploaded file from S3.

Reviewer: ... but isn't that plugin only about uploads? :trollface: 

More seriously though, this pleads in favor of renaming the plugin "s3" instead of "s3-upload"

*Request format:*

```javascript
{
  // Kuzzle API params
  "controller": "kuzzle-plugin-s3-upload/file",

>   "action": "getUrl",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "action": "deleteFile",
```

  "fileKey": "xen/<uuid>/headcrab.png" // File key in S3 bucket
}
```

## Configuration

You need to set your AWS access key: `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`.  
Otherwise the plugin actions will not be available.  

In your `kuzzlerc` file, you can change the following configuration variable:

```js
{
  "plugins": {
    "kuzzle-plugin-s3-upload": {
      // AWS S3 bucket
      "bucketName": "your-s3-bucket",
      // AWS S3 region
      "region": "eu-west-3",
      // TTL in ms before Presigned URL expire or the uploaded file is deleted
      "signedUrlTTL": 1200000,
      // Redis key prefix

>       "redisPrefis": "s3Plugin/fileController"

Reviewer: Also, why is that configurable?

```suggestion
      "redisPrefix": "s3Plugin/fileController"
```

    }
  }
}
```

### AWS S3 Bucket

First you must configure your bucket to allow public access to uploaded files.  
Go to the `Permissions` tab in your bucket configuration and in `Bucket Policy` add the following statement:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "AddPerm",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": "*",
      "Action": "s3:GetObject",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::your-bucket-name/*"
    }
  ]
}
```

Then you have to allow Cross Origin Request by editing the CORS Configuration:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<CORSConfiguration xmlns="http://s3.amazonaws.com/doc/2006-03-01/">
<CORSRule>
    <AllowedOrigin>your-app-domain.com</AllowedOrigin>
    <AllowedMethod>GET</AllowedMethod>
    <AllowedMethod>PUT</AllowedMethod>
    <AllowedMethod>POST</AllowedMethod>
    <MaxAgeSeconds>3000</MaxAgeSeconds>
    <AllowedHeader>Content-Type</AllowedHeader>
    <AllowedHeader>Authorization</AllowedHeader>
</CORSRule>
</CORSConfiguration>
```

## Installation

> Clone this repository in yoyr `plugins/available` directory and then link it to the `plugins/enabled` directory.  

Reviewer: Please reread yourself before submitting a PR :expressionless: 

```suggestion
Clone this repository in your `plugins/available` directory and then link it to the `plugins/enabled` directory.  
```

> For more informations please refer to the official documentation: https://docs.kuzzle.io/guide/1/essentials/plugins/#installing-a-plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to the official documentation: https://docs.kuzzle.io/guide/1/essentials/plugins/#installing-a-plugin
```

### Local setup

> You can use the [docker-composer.yml](docker/docker-compose.yml) provided in this repository to start a Kuzzle stack with this plugin.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the [docker-composer.yml](docker/docker-compose.yml) file provided in this repository to start a Kuzzle stack with this plugin pre-installed.  
```

> You have to provide valid credentials for AWS S3 through `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have to provide valid credentials for AWS S3 through the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables.
```

  "fileUrl": "https://s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/..." 
}
```

#### *file:delete*

Deletes an uploaded file from S3.

*Request format:*

```javascript
{
  // Kuzzle API params
  "controller": "s3/file",
  "action": "delete",

  "fileKey": "xen/<uuid>/headcrab.png" // File key in S3 bucket
}
```

## Configuration

You need to set your AWS access key: `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`.  

In your `kuzzlerc` file, you can change the following configuration variable:

```js
{
  "plugins": {
    "s3": {
      // AWS S3 bucket
      "bucketName": "your-s3-bucket",
      // AWS S3 region
      "region": "eu-west-3",
      // TTL in ms before Presigned URL expire or the uploaded file is deleted
      "signedUrlTTL": 1200000,
      // Redis key prefix
      "redisPrefix": "s3Plugin/uploads"
    }
  }
}
```

### AWS S3 Bucket

First you must configure your bucket to allow public access to uploaded files.  
Go to the `Permissions` tab in your bucket configuration and in `Bucket Policy` add the following statement:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "AddPerm",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": "*",

>       "Action": "s3:GetObject",

Author: It's work with this config, I'm not an S3 expert but I think that I had kind of "admin" credentials on the bucket and this is only the public permissions

>       "Action": "s3:GetObject",

Author: @benoitvidis  `PutObject` and `DeleteObject` are necessary for the backend part, I added a note on the README mentioning that the AWS access key must have these rights

      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::your-bucket-name/*"
    }
  ]
}
```

Then you have to allow Cross Origin Request by editing the CORS Configuration:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<CORSConfiguration xmlns="http://s3.amazonaws.com/doc/2006-03-01/">
<CORSRule>
    <AllowedOrigin>your-app-domain.com</AllowedOrigin>
    <AllowedMethod>GET</AllowedMethod>
    <AllowedMethod>PUT</AllowedMethod>
    <AllowedMethod>POST</AllowedMethod>
    <MaxAgeSeconds>3000</MaxAgeSeconds>
    <AllowedHeader>Content-Type</AllowedHeader>
    <AllowedHeader>Authorization</AllowedHeader>
</CORSRule>
</CORSConfiguration>
```

## Installation

### Node.js 8 and beyond

Clone this repository in your `plugins/available` directory and then link it to the `plugins/enabled` directory.  

For more information, refer to the official documentation: https://docs.kuzzle.io/guide/1/essentials/plugins/#installing-a-plugin

### Node.js 6

Clone this repository in your `plugins/available` directory and then link it to the `plugins/enabled` directory.  

> Then go to your plugin directory and run `npm run es5-compat`.  

Reviewer: (open to debate)

I wonder if it wouldn't be easier/better to have a global `index.Js` entrypoint trying to load the built compatibility version and, if it isn't available, fallbacking on the ES2018 version?

That would mean having a build script, doing nothing if `process.versions.node` is version 8 or newer (using [semver](https://www.npmjs.com/package/semver) for comparison?)

Author: I like this solution !
